US vice president Kamala Harris has held
talks with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu at the White House
the presumptive Democratic nomy for
president urged Israel's leader to agree
to a truce in Gaza in exchange for the
release of hostages held by Hamas Harris
said she had voiced her serious concern
about the scale of human suffering in
Gaza to Israeli Prime Minister pamin
Netanyahu Netanyahu is in Washington to
shore up support for Israel's ongoing
war against Hamas which came as a
response to the militant islamist Terror
attacks of October 7 last
year here's more of what the vice
president had to
say it is important for the American
people to remember the war in Gaza is
not a binary
issue however too often the conversation
is binary when the reality is anything
but so I ask my fellow Americans to help
encourage efforts to acknowledge the
complexity the nuance and the history of
the region let us all condemn terrorism
and violence let us all do what we can
to prevent the suffering of innocent
civilians and let us condemn
anti-Semitism islamophobia and hate of
any
kind and let us work to unite our
country I thank
you let's get more from William glucoft
Deputy editor of the parliament magazine
in Brussels and DW correspondent a
Ibrahim in Jerusalem good morning to you
both William coming to you first what's
your takeaway from Harris's comments and
talks with
Netanyahu the substance seemed much the
same from what we've seen from the Biden
Administration and really us
administrations and US Politics on the
Israel issue uh for a very long time but
the style was different there was much
more focus on the plight of Palestinian
civilians on the devastation that we've
seen in Gaza and the need to move
forward on this crisis that it can't be
a state of permanent war and just
managing a conflict there needs to be an
end to this conflict in one way shape or
form uh the substance though is very
much the same uh we're hearing you know
still Ironclad commitments to Israel and
the defense of Israel um so really the
question just is how much does the style
count how many points do you give for
the style over the substance and that's
something we're going to have to see uh
in the weeks and months ahead and of
course depending what actually happens
with Kamala Harris's campaign and if she
can actually pull off a win in November
Aya how is the prime minister's visit
playing out in
Israel well as this his address in
Congress was uh uh ongoing I was walking
through the streets here in Jerusalem
and people in cafes and corner stores
were glued to the screens watching uh
that speech here's the thing here in
Israel regardless whether you believe in
prime minister netanyahu's promise of
total Victory or whether you are uh Pro
a ceasefire deal as soon as possible
people here are acutely aware of the
importance of the United States as an
ally uh for Israel and the power and the
pressure that the United States and its
officials can exert on uh Israeli on the
Israeli government to to to to to move
forward with the conduct of this war so
definitely a very very closely watched
uh visit uh we've heard from families of
hostages who want uh American officials
the president and the vice president to
use their influence to try and get this
deal done as the vice president uh just
uh said there while there are others who
want to who are a bit more uh closer to
the demands of what prime minister
Netanyahu uh uh of the demands that
prime minister Netanyahu made in
Congress namely to give more weapons uh
and to according to him get the job uh
uh done faster at the same time uh the
Prime Minister made this visit to
Washington at a time where his approval
ratings are an all-time low up to 70% of
Israelis According to some polls want to
see him uh resign and he was really at
ease and in his element giving that
address in Congress getting that applaud
that's not something that he gets here
in Israel so he also used that um that
used that visit to try to play up uh to
play to his own uh uh uh audience and to
his supporters here to show them that in
Washington with America's uh with
Israel's biggest Ally he's still someone
who's very well connected and can speak
uh uh to officials in a way that they
will listen even give a standing ovation
William you said earlier that the
substance of Harris's comments were uh
the similar to the policy uh from the
Biden Administration but were kamla
Harris to become president would her
Administration have a slightly different
policy on
Israel well we'll have to wait and see
of course if she even becomes president
at all the Democrats right now are
facing a really interesting inflection
point in the history of US Israeli
relations one is that the Arab American
the Palestinian American uh community
and those sympathetic to the Palestinian
and Palestinian protection is actually a
force to be reckoned with now after
decades at a political level of them
almost being silenced or sidelined and
the the Israeli Lobby so strong on a
bipartisan level there's almost no space
for kind of any other uh viewpoints
that's starting to crack a little bit
and we don't know yet just how powerful
they'll be we've seen some inklings of
that in the Michigan primary where the
uncommitted vote as a protest against
Biden's support for Israel uh scored
some enough points at least to you know
make some waves and be a point uh of
contention the so the question is which
of these two powerful interest groups
are going to be important and possibly
decisive in the election in November for
um for K Harrison if so if the the
Palestinian voice can break through at a
political level you're going to have to
see more attention to that side of this
conflict a the White House has told
Netanyahu to get a ceas
deal done could this visit push that
deal over the
line it's very difficult to tell we've
been here before where we've seen the
United States and other uh mediators try
to push the Israeli government and Hamas
for that matter to uh you know inch
towards another hostage uh uh for
prisoner exchange deal with some kind of
cessation of hostilities uh so it's
difficult to tell but certainly um the
negotiations were set to start
in Doha this week there was an Israeli
delegation That was supposed to fly uh
to Doha yesterday but according to
Israeli media reports the Prime Minister
prime minister Netanyahu asked them to
delay their departure hoping uh because
he wanted to speak to the president and
the vice president uh before they could
travel and start the negotiations and
that's being heavily criticized here uh
by families of hostages and their allies
who say that the negotiation should by
no means be a political
uh trip for the prime minister to play
during his visit in Washington and that
that delegation should have already been
uh on uh its way William glucoft from
the parliament magazine in Brussels and
DW correspondent a Abrahim in Jerusalem
thank you
both DW reporter Stephan Simons in
Washington gave us his takeaways from
what Kamala Harris had to
say well let start with the obvious
first that it was her and not President
Biden who actually came out after a
meeting with Benjamin nany the prime
minister of Israel and made those
remarks welcome to the United States in
the presidential election year of 2024
that's number one number two she used um
verbage terminology in a Clarity which
we seldomly hear from the Biden
Administration um and that is notable
number three in my count here and that
is really important I want to quote her
she made sure that everybody understands
that of course this Administration and
including her um this throws unwavering
uh support behind Israel in its right to
defend itself Against Terror and War and
everything else but she says it is also
important how it's how it does so how it
does so matters she said and that was
really really impressive meaning here
with the sound bite we have played
before uh you have you got to me she
really tries
to be nuanced be actually acknowledge
acknowledges the the complexity of the
situation in the Middle East the
complexity for Israel and the complexity
resulting out of now war in Gaza since
October 7th last year let's look uh
Stephan a little more about the the
contrast as you pointed out uh she said
we cannot look away from the dire
humanitarian situation in Gaza she also
called for a ceasefire how much of a
contrast are these words from VP Harris
compared to President
Biden well I have to tell you the truth
I think this is what uh President Joe
Biden and other Administration officials
um tell Benjamin Nan or other
Administration officials from Israel
behind closed doors but that open now at
this time this was Kamala Harris first
coming out as presidential candidate on
a foreign policy issue in that regard uh
and that is remarkable and um you know
we should take note of this however the
United States and that includes the
Biden Administration that includes Cala
Harris and everybody else who's working
in this Administration Secretary of
State blinkin for example is still on
the the the path of wanting a two-state
solution first of all a ceasefire now a
ceasefire deal which allows hostages to
be released which allows gazin um
residents to have a break for at least 6
weeks and then take it from there
secondly and that is big picture
thinking of the administration and of
Kamala Harris is a two-state solution
this is good old American Middle East
policy which is not going to go away
with Camala Harris or Joe Biden part of
the big picture and what she alluded to
was I asked my fellow Americans to help
encourage efforts to acknowledge the
complexity and the nuance and history of
the region it's a worthy sentiment uh
but what does she want to achieve by
saying
this well I think honestly she is a
little bit of catering to the potential
voter voter block or voter segment Joe
Biden may have has lost in in in the
last few months by wavering around you
know there is a movement which started
in Michigan this is the uncommitted
movement that counts now for
750,000 people who were uncommitted in
putting their vote in or support for Joe
Biden she wants those back and she also
um tries to make sure that Americans
understand that there is nothing not
complicated about anything in the Middle
East it's highly complex it is nuanced
and politicians as well as the you and
me American should be able to
differentiate that's what she needs
people to understand so she can make an
argument that she is for absolute
substantial and un wavering support for
Israel on one hand and a good hard look
and how Benjamin Netanyahu and the
Israelis conduct this war in Gaza at the
moment DW reporter Stephan Simons in
Washington DC thank you so much